Add TiDB Cloud Terraform Doc (#10563)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/terraform/terraform-overview.md

---
title: Overview
summary: Create, manage, and update your TiDB Cloud resources through Terraform
---

# Overview

> TiDB Cloud already automate many database operations, and with our Open API you can programmatically handle additional operations like deployment, scaling, and restore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud already automates many database operations, and with our Open API you can programmatically handle additional operations like deployment, scaling, and restore.
```
Add a link to Open API？

---

> title: Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Terraform Overview
```

> title: Terraform Overview

Reviewer 3: 建议把这篇文档作为索引页，提供所有其他 Terraform 相关的文档链接。

Author: pingcap 官网不是已经有树形目录可以作为索引了嘛。这里还需要吗

> title: Terraform Overview

Reviewer 4: This title is not appropriate because it sounds like this is an official doc of Terraform. Please make it more like a TiDB Cloud doc by stating the logic or relationship. For example, manage or use TiDB Cloud through/with/using Terraform...

summary: Create, manage, and update your TiDB Cloud resources through Terraform
---

# Overview

> TiDB Cloud already automates many database operations, and with our [Open API](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta) you can programmatically handle additional operations like deployment, scaling, and restore.

Author: more is not precise, for TiDB Cloud console can also do this. other has been fixed

> If you are looking to a simplified ways to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. I propose trying out our TiDB Cloud Terraform provider with the capabilities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are looking to a simplified ways to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our TiDB Cloud Terraform provider with the capabilities:
```

- Get your project information
- Get cluster spec information, like supported cloud_provider, region, node size and so on

> - Mange your developer tier and dedicated tier, including create, scale, paused and resume the cluster

Author: good idea

> - Create and Delete the backup for your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create and delete the backup for your cluster
```

- Create the restore task for your cluster

## Requirements

> - [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/): compatible with TiDB Cloud release 20220927

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/): compatible with TiDB Cloud release 20220927
```
link to release note?

> - [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/release-notes): compatible with TiDB Cloud release 20220927

Author: I think `https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/release-notes` will redirect to the newest release-notes. if we use release-notes-2022.md, it need to be updated per year.

and we just compatible with September 27, 2022.  not since

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 1.0
- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.18 (if you want to build the provider plugin)

## Supports

[Resources](https://www.terraform.io/language/resources) and [Data sources](https://www.terraform.io/language/data-sources) are the important elements in the Terraform language.

TiDB Cloud supports the following Resources and Data sources:

Resources

> - cluster
> - backup (not support update)
> - restore (not support update and delete)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `cluster`
- `backup` (`update` is not supported)
- `restore` (`update` and `delete` are not supported)
```

Data sources

> - project
> - cluster spec
> - restore
> - backup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `project`
- `cluster spec`
- `restore`
- `backup`
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview
summary: Create, manage, and update your TiDB Cloud resources through Terraform
---

# TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview

As a fully managed service of TiDB, TiDB Cloud can automate database maintenance operations. With the [TiDB Cloud API](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta), you can programmatically handle operations such as deployment, scaling, and restore.

> If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud), which provides you with the following capabilities:

Reviewer 2: Could you also provide a few sentences to let users know the following information? 

- What is Terraform (one sentence to describe it)
- What is TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider here?  (one sentence to describe it)
- What is the relationship between TiDB Cloud API and TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider?

For example, https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/clinic-introduction

- Get your project information.
- Get cluster specification information, such as supported cloud provider, region and node size.
- Manage your TiDB cluster, including creating, scaling, pausing and resuming a cluster.
- Create and delete a backup for your cluster.
- Create a restore task for your cluster.

## Requirements

- [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 1.0
- [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.18 (if you want to build the provider plugin)

## Supports

[Resources](https://www.terraform.io/language/resources) and [Data sources](https://www.terraform.io/language/data-sources) are the two most important elements in the Terraform language.

TiDB Cloud supports the following Resources and Data sources:

Resources

> - `cluster`
> - `backup` (`update` is not supported)
> - `restore` (`update` and `delete` are not supported)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `tidbcloud_cluster`
- `tidbcloud_backup` (`update` is not supported)
- `tidbcloud_restore` (`update` and `delete` are not supported)
```

Reviewer 2: 这里列出的名字是否需要和 
https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud/latest/docs 这里的一致呢

Author: good idea

Data sources

> - `project`
> - `cluster spec`
> - `restore`
> - `backup`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `tidbcloud_project`
- `tidbcloud_cluster_spec`
- `tidbcloud_restore`
- `tidbcloud_backup`
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview
summary: Create, manage, and update your TiDB Cloud resources through Terraform
---

# TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview

As a fully managed service of TiDB, TiDB Cloud can automate database maintenance operations. With the [TiDB Cloud API](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta), you can programmatically handle more operations such as deployment, scaling, and restore.

> If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud), which provides you with the following capabilities:

Reviewer 2: Suggest using "TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider" consistently.

> If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud), which provides you with the following capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud), which provides you with the following capabilities:
```

- Get your project information.

> - Get cluster specification information, like supported cloud_provider, region, node size and so on.

Reviewer: AWS/GCP

> - Get cluster specification information, like supported cloud_provider, region, node size and so on.

Reviewer 2: 谢谢确认，那 cloud_provider 可给改成 cloud provider

- Manage your TiDB cluster, including creating, scaling, pausing and resuming a cluster.
- Create and delete the backup for your cluster.
- Create the restore task for your cluster.

## Requirements

> - [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/release-notes): compatible with TiDB Cloud that is released at September 27, 2022

Reviewer: 不是，不能说和 TiDB Cloud clusters 兼容，我们是和 TiDB Cloud Open API 兼容

> - [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/release-notes): compatible with TiDB Cloud that is released at September 27, 2022

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [TiDB Cloud](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/release-notes): compatible with TiDB Cloud that is released since September 27, 2022
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview
summary: Create, manage, and update your TiDB Cloud resources through Terraform
---

# TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider Overview

As a fully managed service of TiDB, TiDB Cloud can automate database maintenance operations. With the [TiDB Cloud API](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/api/v1beta), you can programmatically handle operations such as deployment, scaling, and restore.

If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud).

- Terraform:

Terraform is an infrastructure as code tool that lets you define both cloud and on-prem resources in human-readable configuration files that you can version, reuse, and share.

- TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider:

> TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider allows one to use Terraform to manage TiDB Cloud with the following capacities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider is a plugin that allows you to use Terraform to manage TiDB Cloud with the following capacities:
```

- Get your project information.
- Get cluster specification information, such as supported cloud provider, region, and node size.
- Manage your TiDB cluster, including creating, scaling, pausing, and resuming a cluster.
- Create and delete a backup for your cluster.
- Create a restore task for your cluster.

## Requirements

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- [Create a TiDB Cloud account](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial)
```

> - [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 1.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Download Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 1.0
```

> - [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.18 (if you want to build the provider plugin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Intall Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.18 (if you want to build TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider)
```

If you are looking for a simplified way to automate resource provisioning and your infrastructure workflow. You can try out our [TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/tidbcloud/tidbcloud).

- Terraform:

Terraform is an infrastructure as code tool that lets you define both cloud and on-prem resources in human-readable configuration files that you can version, reuse, and share.

- TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider:

TiDB Cloud Terraform Provider is a plugin that allows you to use Terraform to manage TiDB Cloud with the following capacities:

- Get your project information.
- Get cluster specification information, such as supported cloud provider, region, and node size.
- Manage your TiDB cluster, including creating, scaling, pausing, and resuming a cluster.
- Create and delete a backup for your cluster.
- Create a restore task for your cluster.

## Requirements

- [Create a TiDB Cloud account](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial)

> - [Create a TiDB Cloud account](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial)
> - [Create a TiDB Cloud account](https://tidbcloud.com/free-trial)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
